Add admission webhook best practices and warnings (#15876)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/extensible-admission-controllers.md

### Idempotence

#### Example of idempotent mutating admission webhooks:

1. For a `CREATE` pod request, set the field `.spec.securityContext.runAsNonRoot` of the
   pod to true, to enforce security best practices.

2. For a `CREATE` pod request, if the field `.spec.containers[].resouces.limits`
   of a container is not set, set default resource limits.

3. For a `CREATE` pod request, inject a sidecar container with name "foo-sidecar".

In the cases above, the webhook can be safely reinvoked, or admit an object that already has the fields set. The admission
can be applied multiple times without changing the result beyond the initial application.

#### Example of non-idempotent mutating admission webhooks:

1. For a `CREATE` pod request, inject a sidecar container with name "foo-sidecar"
   suffixed with the current timestamp (e.g. "foo-sidecar-19700101-000000").

In the case above, reinvoking the webhook can result in the same sidecar being injected multiple times to a pod, each time
with a different container name. Similarly the webhook can inject duplicated containers when the sidecar already exists in
the user-provided pod.

### Intercepting all versions of an object

> It is recommended that admission webhooks should always intercpet all versions of an object by setting `.webhooks[].matchPolicy`

Reviewer: nit: intercept

to `Equivalent`. It is also recommended that admission webhooks should prefer registering for stable versions of resources.
Failure to intercept all versions of an object can result in admission policies not being enforced for requests in certain
versions. See [Matching requests: matchPolicy](#matching-requests-matchpolicy) for examples.

### Availability

> It is recommended that admission webhooks should should evaluate as quickly as possible, since they add to API request latency.

Reviewer: nit: should should

It is recommended that admission webhooks should leverage some format of load-balancing, to provide high availability and
performance benefits. If a webhook is running within the cluster, you can run multiple webhook backends behind a service
to leverage the load-balancing that service supports.

### Guaranteeing the final state of the object is seen

Admission webhooks that need to guarantee they see the final state of the object in order to enforce policy
should use a validating admission webhook, since objects can be modified after being seen by mutating webhooks.

For example, a mutating admission webhook is configured to inject a sidecar container with name "foo-sidecar" on every
`CREATE` pod requests. A validating admisson webhook must be configurated to intercept `CREATE` pod requests, and validate
that a container with name "foo-sidecar" exists in the to-be-created object.

### Avoiding deadlocks in self-hosted webhooks

A webhook that enacts policies for webhook mission-critical resources might cause deadlocks for its own deployment.

For example, a mutating admission webhook is configured to admit `CREATE` pod requests only if certain label is set in the

> pod. The webhook server runs in a deployment which doesn't set the label. When a node that runs the webhook server pods

Reviewer: nit: ... only if a specific label is set in the Pod.
nit: Can you explain a bit more. What label?

  ...
```

## Best practices and warnings

### Idempotence

An idempotent mutating admission webhook is able to successfully process an object it has already admitted
and potentially modified. The admission can be applied multiple times without changing the result beyond
the initial application.

#### Example of idempotent mutating admission webhooks:

1. For a `CREATE` pod request, set the field `.spec.securityContext.runAsNonRoot` of the
   pod to true, to enforce security best practices.

> 2. For a `CREATE` pod request, if the field `.spec.containers[].resouces.limits`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. For a `CREATE` pod request, if the field `.spec.containers[].resources.limits`
```

   of a container is not set, set default resource limits.

> 3. For a `CREATE` pod request, inject a sidecar container with name `foo-sidecar`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. For a `CREATE` pod request, inject a sidecar container with name `foo-sidecar` if no container with the name `foo-sidecar` already exists.
```

In the cases above, the webhook can be safely reinvoked, or admit an object that already has the fields set.

#### Example of non-idempotent mutating admission webhooks:

1. For a `CREATE` pod request, inject a sidecar container with name `foo-sidecar`

>    suffixed with the current timestamp (e.g. `foo-sidecar-19700101-000000`).

Reviewer 2: add examples of a webhook failing on its own output:
* a webhook that rejects pods with the label "env" set, then adds an `env: prod` label
* a webhook that blindly appends a container named `foo-sidecar` without looking to see if there is already a `foo-sidecar` container in the pod

In the case above, reinvoking the webhook can result in the same sidecar being injected multiple times to a pod, each time
with a different container name. Similarly the webhook can inject duplicated containers if the sidecar already exists in
a user-provided pod.

### Intercepting all versions of an object

It is recommended that admission webhooks should always intercpet all versions of an object by setting `.webhooks[].matchPolicy`
to `Equivalent`. It is also recommended that admission webhooks should prefer registering for stable versions of resources.
Failure to intercept all versions of an object can result in admission policies not being enforced for requests in certain
versions. See [Matching requests: matchPolicy](#matching-requests-matchpolicy) for examples.

### Availability

> It is recommended that admission webhooks should should evaluate as quickly as possible, since they add to API request latency.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is recommended that admission webhooks should should evaluate as quickly as possible (typically in milliseconds), since they add to API request latency.
```

Add concrete recommendations here, or at least give an order of magnitude

It is encouraged to use a small timeout for webhooks. See [Timeouts](#timeouts) for more detail.

It is recommended that admission webhooks should leverage some format of load-balancing, to provide high availability and
performance benefits. If a webhook is running within the cluster, you can run multiple webhook backends behind a service
to leverage the load-balancing that service supports.

### Guaranteeing the final state of the object is seen

Admission webhooks that need to guarantee they see the final state of the object in order to enforce policy
should use a validating admission webhook, since objects can be modified after being seen by mutating webhooks.

For example, a mutating admission webhook is configured to inject a sidecar container with name "foo-sidecar" on every

> `CREATE` pod requests. A validating admisson webhook must be configurated to intercept `CREATE` pod requests, and validate

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`CREATE` pod request. If the sidecar *must* be present, a validating admisson webhook should also be configured to intercept `CREATE` pod requests, and validate
```

> that a container with name "foo-sidecar" exists in the to-be-created object.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
that a container with name "foo-sidecar" with the expected configuration exists in the to-be-created object.
```

### Avoiding deadlocks in self-hosted webhooks

> A webhook that enacts policies for webhook mission-critical resources might cause deadlocks for its own deployment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A webhook that enacts policies for webhook mission-critical resources might cause deadlocks for its own deployment if it is running inside the cluster.
```

> For example, a mutating admission webhook is configured to admit `CREATE` pod requests only if certain label is set in the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, a mutating admission webhook is configured to admit `CREATE` pod requests only if a certain label is set in the
```

pod. The webhook server runs in a deployment which doesn't set the label. When a node that runs the webhook server pods
becomes unhealthy, the webhook deployment will try to reschedule the pods to another node. However the requests will
get rejected by the existing webhook server since the label is unset, and the migration cannot happen.

It is recommended to exclude the namespace where your webhook is running with a [namespaceSelector](#matching-requests-namespaceselector).

### Side effects

It is recommended that admission webhooks should avoid side effects if possible, which means the webhooks operate only on the
content of the `AdmissionReview` sent to them, and do not make out-of-band changes. The `.webhooks[].sideEffects` field should
be set to `None` if a webhook doesn't have any side effect.

> If side effects are required during the admission evaluation, it is recommended that admission webhooks should not trigger

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If side effects are required during the admission evaluation, they must be suppressed when processing an AdmissionReview object with `dryRun` set to `true`, and the `.webhooks[].sideEffects` field should be set to `NoneOnDryRun`.
```

strengthen this guidance, since only `None` or `NoneOnDryRun` are allowed in v1

side effects on dry run. A webhook should suppress the side effects when a request with `dryRun: true` set. The
`.webhooks[].sideEffects` field should be set to `NoneOnDryRun`. Failure to set the `sideEffects` field to `None` or
`NoneOnDryRun` will result in dry run requests being rejected. See [Side effects](#side-effects) for more detail.

### Avoiding operating on the kube-system namespace

The `kube-system` namespace contains objects created by the Kubernetes system,
e.g. service accounts for the control plane components, pods like `kube-dns`.
Accidentally mutating or rejecting requests in the `kube-system` namespace may
cause the control plane components to stop functioning or introduce unknown behavior.

> If your admission webhooks don't intend to interfere with the Kubernetes control

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If your admission webhooks don't intend to modify the behavior of the Kubernetes control
```

> plane, please exclude the `kube-system` from being intercepted using a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
plane, exclude the `kube-system` namespace from being intercepted using a
```

It is encouraged to use a small timeout for webhooks. See [Timeouts](#timeouts) for more detail.

It is recommended that admission webhooks should leverage some format of load-balancing, to provide high availability and
performance benefits. If a webhook is running within the cluster, you can run multiple webhook backends behind a service
to leverage the load-balancing that service supports.

### Guaranteeing the final state of the object is seen

Admission webhooks that need to guarantee they see the final state of the object in order to enforce policy
should use a validating admission webhook, since objects can be modified after being seen by mutating webhooks.

For example, a mutating admission webhook is configured to inject a sidecar container with name "foo-sidecar" on every
`CREATE` pod request. If the sidecar *must* be present, a validating admisson webhook should also be configured to intercept `CREATE` pod requests, and validate
that a container with name "foo-sidecar" with the expected configuration exists in the to-be-created object.

### Avoiding deadlocks in self-hosted webhooks

> A webhook that enacts policies for webhook mission-critical resources might cause deadlocks for its own deployment if it is running inside the cluster.

Reviewer 2: "webhook mission-critical resources" is hard to understand. suggest rephrasing to:

> A webhook running inside the cluster might cause deadlocks for its own deployment if it is configured to intercept resources required to start its own pods.

pod (e.g. `"env": "prod"`). The webhook server runs in a deployment which doesn't set the `"env"` label.
When a node that runs the webhook server pods
becomes unhealthy, the webhook deployment will try to reschedule the pods to another node. However the requests will
get rejected by the existing webhook server since the `"env"` label is unset, and the migration cannot happen.

It is recommended to exclude the namespace where your webhook is running with a [namespaceSelector](#matching-requests-namespaceselector).

### Side effects

It is recommended that admission webhooks should avoid side effects if possible, which means the webhooks operate only on the
content of the `AdmissionReview` sent to them, and do not make out-of-band changes. The `.webhooks[].sideEffects` field should
be set to `None` if a webhook doesn't have any side effect.

If side effects are required during the admission evaluation, they must be suppressed when processing an AdmissionReview object
with `dryRun` set to `true`, and the `.webhooks[].sideEffects` field should be set to `NoneOnDryRun`.
side effects on dry run. A webhook should suppress the side effects when a request with `dryRun: true` set. The

> `.webhooks[].sideEffects` field should be set to `NoneOnDryRun`. Failure to set the `sideEffects` field to `None` or

Reviewer 2: spurious duplicate text?

> side effects on dry run. A webhook should suppress the side effects when a request with `dryRun: true` set. The `.webhooks[].sideEffects` field should be set to `NoneOnDryRun`.
